---
title: Assessing Viability of Passive Integrated Transponder (PIT) Tags for Ecological
  Studies of Lamprey Ammocoetes
author: Caleb A. Aldridge
date: '2018-10-05'
tags:
  - PIT tags
  - Southern Brook Lamprey
layout: post
excerpt: Can we use PIT tags to study Southern Brook Lamprey ammocoetes?
category: presentation
---

Passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags are widely used to study movement and habitat preferences in large-bodied fish species. However, relatively large tag sizes have traditionally limited their suitability for small-bodied fishes. Technological advances have recently led to the production of smaller PIT tags (8.0 x 1.4 mm) that may prove useful to the study of small-bodied fish species, particularly those of conservation importance. Southern Brook Lamprey (Ichthyomyzon gagei) are small-bodied, filiform fish. Many ecological questions about the species, particularly the ammocoete life stage, are still unknown. Basic questions such as small-scale movement and habitat preferences are still lacking in the literature. The use of small PIT tags may provide answers to a variety of ecological questions for lamprey, as well as other small-bodied fishes. However, before these tags can be widely implemented, diagnostic research is required. Tag retention and detection probability are critical aspects that will inform the suitability of these small tags in future research. Effects on fish growth and survival are also important considerations if these novel tag methodologies are to be used in an ecological framework. In this experiment, we surgically implanted small (8.0 x 1.4 mm) PIT tags into ammocoete Brook Lamprey. Tag retention and individual survival were evaluated in situ using small enclosures. Detection probability was assessed via additional tagged lamprey as well as a long string with PIT tags attached, buried in the stream sediment. Lamprey survival varied  from 50 to 60% and tag retention was 100% for survivors. Tag detections showed little variability with respect to sediment depth but did vary between tagged individuals. The results from this study suggest that small PIT tags are suitable for use in small-bodied fishes and may provide novel information to the ecology of the Southern Brook Lamprey ammocoete life stage.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/gview?url=https://github.com/AldridgeCaleb/aldridgecaleb.github.io/raw/master/docs/Richardson_Lamprey_Poster_v2.pdf&embedded=true" width="100%" height="500px" frameborder="1"></iframe>