---
title: Grandparents to the Grand Canyon, Part V
author: Caleb A. Aldridge
date: '2018-03-27'
tags:
  - GP2GC
  - Mesa Verde
  - MVNP
  - travel
layout: post
excerpt: The final chapter
modified: 2018-03-27, 12:00:24
comments: yes
category: blog
---

## Mesa Verde

So my granddad (Poppa) has well-rounded interests and when two or more of those interest can be sparked by a single place or topic he's a very perky fellow. The cultural and natural significance of Mesa Verde NP was such that we all were perked up. (More to come on this).

## Traveling Back

The drive home wasn't too eventful, especially in light of what we had just experienced. I think mostly we were tired and the adrenaline had subsided. (More to come on this). 

## Reflections

It's hard to convey what is gained mentally, emotionally, and spiritually by taking a trip such as "Grandparents to the Grand Canyon." There are some things that come to mind upon reflection.

#### Gratitude

It is without doubt a great privilege and luck to have the financial means to make such a trip possible. It's hard to know when a job market could shift, a financial crash will occur, or when unexpected events will give a blow to your bank account. Really all we can do is prepare for the worst by being financially conservative but that's no reason not to enjoy spectacular nature and family. I believe one of the best ways you can spend your money is on experiences with people you love, because you aren't just spending money but the most valuable currency you have; time.

#### Humility

Seeing such awing natural landscapes and learning about the forces that created those places can only make you realize how insignificant you are in this vast universe. It's that existential feeling that actually makes you realize how important others are to you---it makes you realize how alike we all are on this [pale blue dot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GO5FwsblpT8&t=68s). You can only wonder how many other people fell as overwhelmed as you do at the edge of the Grand Canyon; how many ancient people stood exactly where you did? And so, it minimizes those things which are of no importance and magnifies those that are.

#### Love

It's hard to describe what love is or even how it feels. All I can really say is that it grows in time---and even stronger in quality times. Take grand trips with your family. And grand isn't measured by the place visited. 
